<h1 id="u-s-department-of-labor-top-hat-plan-data">U.S. Department of Labor Top Hat Plan data</h1>

<p>The centerpiece data in this repository comes from the U.S. Department of Labor. A <a rel="noreferrer noopener" href="https://www.askebsa.dol.gov/tophatplansearch" data-type="URL" data-id="https://www.askebsa.dol.gov/tophatplansearch" target="_blank">limited-feature search portal</a> is available on DOL's website (as of 12/4/2021) to pull "top hat statement" pdf files. However, this portal lacks key contextual information (<a href="https://www.askebsa.dol.gov/efile/Home/tophat" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">input via form</a>) which is otherwise available in dataset format.</p>

<p class="has-medium-font-size"><strong>What are Top Hat Plans?</strong></p>

<p>Top hat plans are "unfunded, nonqualified deferred compensation plans covering a 'select group of management or highly compensated employees.'" </p>

<p>"Top hat pension plans are a type of nonqualified deferred compensation (NQDC) arrangement. Employers maintain NQDC plans for a number of reasons, including recruiting employees, incentivizing employees to remain employed for a specified period (sometimes referred to as a 'golden handcuffs' arrangement), and supplementing retirement benefits provided under tax-qualified retirement plans."</p>

<p class="has-medium-font-size"><strong>Okay... How Does  "Deferred Compensation Plan" become "Qualified?" And What's a "Nonqualified" Deferred Compensation Plan?</strong></p>

<p>A "qualified" deferred compensation plan is a pension plan governed under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). Contributions made to a "qualified" deferred compensation plan are put into a trust that is separate from an employer's operations. Traditional 401(k)s or 403(b)s are types of "qualified" deferred compensation plans. </p>

<p>A "nonqualified" deferred compensation plan works differently. Compensation contributed to these plans is considered part of an employer's assets, and can be used by that employer for business reasons. Furthermore, if an employer goes bankrupt, the target-employee of this "nonqualified" deferred compensation plan is considered an unsecured creditor. And as described above, "nonqualified" deferred compensation plans are designed to incentivize employee longevity. In practice, this means if an employee fails to satisfy the terms of a deferred-compensation contractual arrangement, the employer does not owe this employee compensation. </p>

<p class="has-medium-font-size"><strong>I Still Don't Get It</strong></p>

<p>As an example, consider President Brown at State University. Let's say President Brown's employment contract establishes in 2015 a "nonqualified" deferred compensation plan for her. And State University is contractually obligated to annually credit $100,000 this "nonqualified" deferred compensation plan on July 1st of each of the following years: 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, and 2020 — as long as President Brown is still employed at State University.</p>

<p>President Brown's deferred-compensation arrangement also sets the plan's vesting date as July 1, 2020, but again only if President Brown is still an employee of State University. No retiring early. No leaving for a cooler job somewhere else. President Brown has to still be with State University on July 1, 2020. 

<p>When July 1, 2020 arrives, if President Brown is still an employee of State University, State University will owe President Brown at least $500,000 that State University has been contractually crediting towards that "nonqualified" deferred compensation plan since 2016. This compensation is likely in addition to the base compensation she traditionally is paid every year, along with any performance-based bonuses, allowances, or other perks. 

<p>But if President Brown seperates from State University any time before July 1, 2020, State University no longer needs to credit money towards that "nonqualified" deferred compensation plan. Nor does it need to anticipate owing President Brown any taxable compensation in 2020.</p>

<p class="has-medium-font-size"><strong>Okay... What Makes a Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan "Unfunded" Instead of "Funded?"</strong></p>

The "unfunded" or "funded" status of a plan indicates how a plan is financed. 

When a deferred compensatioin plan is "funded," an employer is actively and systemically setting aside cash in advance to cover the employer's obligations as defined by the deferred-compensation contractual arrangement. 

When a deferred compensation plan is "unfunded," the payments made by virtue of the plan are originating from the current income generated by the employer. No money is being set aside in advance. 

<p class="has-medium-font-size"><strong>What Else Should I Know About This Data?</strong></p>





<p>https://www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/files/EBSA/about-ebsa/about-us/erisa-advisory-council/2020-examining-top-hat-plan-participation-and-reporting.pdf</p>

<p>https://www.thehartford.com/business-insurance/strategy/deferred-compensation-plans/nonqualified</p>

<p> https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-tege/eotopici99.pdf</p>

